hey gang my name is coach Bob and I'm
here in my apartment to give you the
coach Bob method for learning any
juggling trick if you give a juggler a
trick he or she is fed for a day if you
give a juggler the coach Bob method he
or she is fed for life my good friend
Tommy Carruthers once said a good
teacher is one who makes himself
progressively unnecessary in this video
my intention is to give you a method for
learning any juggling skill the only
prerequisite skill that you should be
comfortable with before participating in
this video is this basic three ball
cascade pattern the coach Bob method for
learning any juggling trick is a
four-step procedure the first step is
more of a tip than a methane when
learning a new juggling move I recommend
learning with your weaker hand first
to demonstrate the method I will guide
you through the steps to learning this
basic juggling move the under the leg
toss but remember you can apply this
method to any juggling move the 3-ball
cascade is a highly symmetrical physical
activity that promotes ambidexterity but
many jugglers become imbalanced when
learning tricks learning tricks with
both hands will require extra practice
with your weekend the second step in the
coach Bob method is to break down the
desired move to its simplest components
and practice those components in
isolation starting with one ball in your
weaker hand the simplest breakdown of
the under the leg move looks like this
practice this until it becomes easy
breaking down complex skills to their
simplest components is the essence of
the coach Bob philosophy of learning
once you have mastered the one ball
isolation drill you can add a second
ball and practice the two ball drills
baby steps first I would recommend
starting with throw throw catch catch
starting with the desired move throw
throw catch catch then you can try
throw throw catch catch with the desired
move as the second throw throw throw
catch catch
throw throw a pitch catch throw throw
catch
after mastering the one and two ball
breakdown drills you aren't all ready
for step three the third step is to
practice starting with the move like
this starting with your weaker hand
begin the Cascade pattern begin the
Cascade better after you have mastered
the one in to ball breakdown drills and
have grown comfortable with starting the
Cascade pattern with the desired move
you are not ready for step for executing
the move out of your cascade pattern
building success upon success to coach
bob method there is some trial and error
involved with step four
but since you have baby step your way
through the one and two ball break down
drills and successfully learn to start
your Cascade pattern with the move you
should experience more success than
failure hopefully this introductory
lesson
will act as a gateway to the wonderful
world of juggling as you embark on the
jugglers journey of lifelong learning
always remember coach Bob's five-piece
of learning
positive practice patience perseverance
and pass it on if you have any questions
feel free to post them in the comment
section below